= coma - a console mail user agent

== About

This is coma, a simple but powerful console mail user agent.  You can
think of it as a modern (that is, post-2000) alternative to the
venerable MH, RAND Mail Handler.

coma aims to provide a surrogate for MH that works well in modern
environments.  The main differences are:

* coma uses Maildir as backing store; this is more reliable and widely
  supported.
* coma has built-in MIME support.
* coma has built-in threading support (using jwz's algorithm).
* coma is a single, extensible script written in Ruby, so you can
  implement complex features in it easily without having to write C.

Yet, coma also is a lot like MH:

* it is command-driven, featuring a non-captive interface, unlike
  tools like mailx or mutt.  It is well suited for parallel use for
  multiple terminals and thus a good fit for screen/tmux/xterms.
* it is a MUA only.  Mail delivery and transfer is the task of other
  tools.

== Workflow

How do you use coma?  The default workflow for coma works like this:
XXX TODO mostly

* You are bored and want to read mail, or your xlbiff pops up and
  shows an interesting message.
* Thus, you check your folders for new Maildir messages:

    % coma inc
    +INBOX              134 messages   129 unread     5 new

* You setup a reading sequence you want to progress in; usually this
  is saved in your config, here is the explicit variant

  % coma read +INBOX +ruby-talk -thread
  [...scan lines of new mail...]

* You read the mails:
  % coma show
  % coma next
  % coma next
  % coma next
  .
  .
  .
  % coma next
  no more mail

* You are done.

* It is highly advised that you alias ,=coma.

== Searching mail

  XXX TODO
  % mairix foobar -r | coma read -

== Sending mail

  % coma mail ... [-cc ...] [-bcc ...] [-att ...]

  % coma repl

  % coma fwd

== Dependencies

tmail and json.  Only tested with Ruby 1.8.

coma currently needs metamail(1) to display mail and file(1) and
mhbuild(1) to send MIME mail.

== ZSH integration

  XXX TODO

== tkma

  XXX TODO, rough port of exmh to be expected.

== Can I ...?

I accept no feature requests at this point; coma will become *my*
perfect mail reader.  But you are welcome to fork and patch, and maybe
in a few months, we can figure out what's good and what not, and then
merge accordingly.

== Copying

Written by Christian Neukirchen <http://purl.org/net/chneukirchen>.

To the extent possible under law, the creator of this work has waived
all copyright and related or neighboring rights to this work.

http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
